README.md, before:

# FathGrid
No dependencies pure JavaScript data table/grid with:
- instant search, 
- paging, 
- sorting (by multiple columns), 
- filtering, 
- export,
- custom row highlights,
- edit mode.

![Sample screenshot](/fathgrid.png)


![Demo](/sample.html)


Just include .js file in your HTML and initialize table with:

    var t1=FathGrid("table1",{});

where "table1" is an ID of HTML table. Your table must have THEAD and TBODY tags like:

    <table id="table1">
        <thead>
            <tr><th>header</th></tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
            <tr><td>value1</td></tr>
        </tbody>
    </table>

# Table Data
Table data can be set inline, in your HTML, or dynamically loaded with setData method or configuration option.
## Inline Data
Simply add all your data in table body. FathGrid will load all content and show only first page.
Sample:

    <table id="table1">
        <thead>
            <tr><th>id</th><th>name</th></tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
            <tr><td>1</td><td>first row</td></tr>
            <tr><td>2</td><td>second row</td></tr>
            <tr><td>3</td><td>third row</td></tr>
        </tbody>
    </table>


## Dynamic data
Table content can be empty and data loaded from JavaScript array using setData method:

    <table id="table1">
        <thead>
            <tr><th>id</th><th>name</th></tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
        </tbody>
    </table>
    <script>
      var t1=FathGrid('table1',{data:[
        ['1','first row'],
        ['2','second row'],
        ['3','third row']
        ]
      });
      //or, calling a method
      t1.setData([['10','...'],['22','...'],['30','...']]);
    </script>

## JSON data objects
Table content can be set using array of JSON objects. In that case, columns definition must include "name" property which specifies object attribute name to display:

    fetch('https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts')
      .then(response => response.json())
      .then(json => {
        var t1=FathGrid("table1",{
          columns:[
              {editable:false, name:'id'},
              {
                name:'userId', 
                filter:users,
                listOfValues:users,
                value:function(item){return users.find(i=>i.value==item.userId).name;}
              },
              {name:'title'},
              {
                name:'body',
                html:function(item){return `<b>${item.body}</b>`}
              },
          ],
          data:json,
        });
      })





## Configuration options
<table><thead><tr><th>Name</th><th>Description</th><th>Default</th></tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td>size</td><td>page size</td><td>20</td></tr>
<tr><td>page</td><td>page number to show</td><td>1</td></tr>
<tr><td>filterable</td><td>show filter row in thead</td><td>true</td></tr>
<tr><td>editable</td><td>allow edits</td><td>true</td></tr>
<tr><td>sortable</td><td>Allow sorting. Click on column header to sort, hold shift to add column to multisort.</td><td>true</td></tr>
<tr><td>columns</td><td>configure columns</td><td>{}</td></tr>
<tr><td>showFooter</td><td>add footer row to table</td><td>false</td></tr>
<tr><td>data</td><td>table data</td><td>data from HTML table content</td></tr>
<tr><td>rowClass</td><td>function to return a string with row classes. Use it to change row appearance based on some criteria.</td><td>function(data,index){}</td></tr>
<tr><td>onChange</td><td>function to call when cell data is changed</td><td>function(data, col, old_value, new_value){}</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Columns
Columns definition is an array of objects defining column appereance and functions.
<table><thead><tr><th>Name</th><th>Description</th><th>Default</th></tr></thead><tbody>
<tr><td>name</td><td>field name in data record</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>filter</td><td>list of values for filter select, or a null to automatically build the list from table data</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>value</td><td>function which returns cell text content</td><td>function(item){}</td></tr>
<tr><td>html</td><td>function which returns cell HTML content</td><td>function(item){}</td></tr>
<tr><td>header</td><td>header text</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>footer</td><td>function which returns footer cell HTML content</td><td>function(data,element){}</td></tr>
<tr><td>editable</td><td>boolean if edit is allowed, or a function(item,col) which return boolean</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>type</td><td>input type for cell editor. supported values are: text, color, image, date, email, number, checkbox, textarea.</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>pattern</td><td>regular expression to check the input value against when editing cell content</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>title</td><td>help string for input in edit mode</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>listOfValues</td><td>array of selectable values when editing</td><td></td></tr>
</tbody></table>

To add filter values to column 5, and let grid fill in values for filter of column 3, use:

    var t1=FathGrid("table1",{
      size:10,
      editable:true,
      filterable:true,
      sortable:true,
      columns:[
        {editable:false, header:'ID#'},
        {
          listOfValues:[1,2,3,4,5,"Abel","SomeName"], //list of values for edit, or a function(data,col) which returns list of values
        },
        {
          filter:null, //array or null for auto-generation of filter list
          editable:function(data,col,el){return data.rownum>3}, //is field editable
        },
        {
          type:'text', //edit input type: text, date, email, checkbox, textarea
          pattern:'[0-9]*',
          title:'only numbers, please!'
        },
        {type:'checkbox',
          editable:true,
          filter:[{name:'no',value:0},{name:'yes',value:1}],
          footer:function(data,el){return data.map(x=>x.amount).reduce((x,s)=>x+s).toFixed(2);}, //display sum of field "amount"

        },
      ],
    });

# Export
Text, CSV, HTML and XLS export formats are supported.<br/>
To enable PDF export, include jsPDF.js in your page and PDF export functionality will be automatically enabled.

# API
  .getData() // returns table data 
  
  .setData(newData) // sets new table data, possibly after delete or creating a new record

  .export(format, filename) //export data
  
  .render() //redraw
  
  .sort(column_index [, asc|desc][, multisort] ) //sort data, set multisort to sort by multiple columns
  
  .getSort() //returns array of 1-based column indices, negative if using descending sort order

  .setSort(indices) // eg. .setSort([2,1]) to sort by second then first column
  
  .filter(column_index, query) //add filter string to a column
  
  .getFilter() //returns array of column query strings
  
  .editCell(rownum, col) //start editor in the cell

  .search([query string]) //instant serach by all columns. calling this method without argument returns current search string.

  
 
# License
    GPL

# Commercial use license
$99 <a href="https://checkout.bluesnap.com/buynow/checkout?sku3644722=1&storeid=9104">Buy</a>

Commit message:

get selected row API function

README.md, after:

# FathGrid
No dependencies pure JavaScript data table/grid with:
- instant search, 
- paging, 
- sorting (by multiple columns), 
- filtering (with text input or selecting from a list),
- export to txt, csv, pdf, xls, etc.,
- custom row highlights,
- grouping on custom value,
- data edit mode,
- inline data, JSON fetching or server-side processing.

![Sample screenshot](/fathgrid.png)


Just include .js file in your HTML and initialize table with:

    var t1=FathGrid("table1",{});

where "table1" is an ID of HTML table. 

    <table id="table1">
        <thead>
            <tr><th>header</th></tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
            <tr><td>value1</td></tr>
        </tbody>
    </table>

# Table Data
Table data can be set inline, in your HTML, or dynamically loaded with setData method or configuration option.
## Inline Data
Simply add all your data in table body. FathGrid will load all content and show only first page.
Sample:

    <table id="table1">
        <thead>
            <tr><th>id</th><th>name</th></tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
            <tr><td>1</td><td>first row</td></tr>
            <tr><td>2</td><td>second row</td></tr>
            <tr><td>3</td><td>third row</td></tr>
        </tbody>
    </table>


## Dynamic data
Table content can be empty and data loaded from JavaScript array using setData method:

    <table id="table1">
        <thead>
            <tr><th>id</th><th>name</th></tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
        </tbody>
    </table>
    <script>
      var t1=FathGrid('table1',{data:[
        ['1','first row'],
        ['2','second row'],
        ['3','third row']
        ]
      });
      //or, calling a method
      t1.setData([['10','...'],['22','...'],['30','...']]);
    </script>

## JSON data objects
Table content can be set using array of JSON objects. In that case, columns definition must include "name" property which specifies object attribute name to display:

    fetch('https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts')
      .then(response => response.json())
      .then(json => {
        var t1=FathGrid("table1",{
          columns:[
              {editable:false, name:'id'},
              {
                name:'userId', 
                filter:users,
                listOfValues:users,
                value:function(item){return users.find(i=>i.value==item.userId).name;}
              },
              {name:'title'},
              {
                name:'body',
                html:function(item){return `<b>${item.body}</b>`}
              },
          ],
          data:json,
        });
      })





## Configuration options
<table><thead><tr><th>Name</th><th>Description</th><th>Default</th></tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td>size</td><td>page size</td><td>20</td></tr>
<tr><td>page</td><td>page number to show</td><td>1</td></tr>
<tr><td>filterable</td><td>show filter row in thead</td><td>true</td></tr>
<tr><td>editable</td><td>allow edits</td><td>true</td></tr>
<tr><td>sortable</td><td>Allow sorting. Click on column header to sort, hold shift to add column to multisort.</td><td>true</td></tr>
<tr><td>columns</td><td>configure columns</td><td>{}</td></tr>
<tr><td>showFooter</td><td>add footer row to table</td><td>false</td></tr>
<tr><td>data</td><td>table data</td><td>data from HTML table content</td></tr>
<tr><td>rowClass</td><td>function to return a string with row classes. Use it to change row appearance based on some criteria.</td><td>function(data,index){}</td></tr>
<tr><td>onChange</td><td>function to call when cell data is changed</td><td>function(data, col, old_value, new_value){}</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Columns
Columns definition is an array of objects defining column appereance and functions.
<table><thead><tr><th>Name</th><th>Description</th><th>Default</th></tr></thead><tbody>
<tr><td>name</td><td>field name in data record</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>filter</td><td>list of values for filter select, or a null to automatically build the list from table data</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>value</td><td>function which returns cell text content</td><td>function(item){}</td></tr>
<tr><td>html</td><td>function which returns cell HTML content</td><td>function(item){}</td></tr>
<tr><td>header</td><td>header text</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>footer</td><td>function which returns footer cell HTML content</td><td>function(data,element){}</td></tr>
<tr><td>editable</td><td>boolean if edit is allowed, or a function(item,col) which return boolean</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>type</td><td>input type for cell editor. supported values are: text, color, image, date, email, number, checkbox, textarea.</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>pattern</td><td>regular expression to check the input value against when editing cell content</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>title</td><td>help string for input in edit mode</td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>listOfValues</td><td>array of selectable values when editing</td><td></td></tr>
</tbody></table>

To add filter values to column 5, and let grid fill in values for filter of column 3, use:

    var t1=FathGrid("table1",{
      size:10,
      editable:true,
      filterable:true,
      sortable:true,
      columns:[
        {editable:false, header:'ID#'},
        {
          listOfValues:[1,2,3,4,5,"Abel","SomeName"], //list of values for edit, or a function(data,col) which returns list of values
        },
        {
          filter:null, //array or null for auto-generation of filter list
          editable:function(data,col,el){return data.rownum>3}, //is field editable
        },
        {
          type:'text', //edit input type: text, date, email, checkbox, textarea
          pattern:'[0-9]*',
          title:'only numbers, please!'
        },
        {type:'checkbox',
          editable:true,
          filter:[{name:'no',value:0},{name:'yes',value:1}],
          footer:function(data,el){return data.map(x=>x.amount).reduce((x,s)=>x+s).toFixed(2);}, //display sum of field "amount"

        },
      ],
    });

# Export
Text, CSV, HTML and XLS export formats are supported.<br/>
To enable PDF export, include jsPDF.js in your page and PDF export functionality will be automatically enabled.

# API
  .getData() // returns table data 
  
  .setData(newData) // sets new table data, possibly after delete or creating a new record

  .export(format, filename) //export data
  
  .render() //redraw
  
  .sort(column_index [, asc|desc][, multisort] ) //sort data, set multisort to sort by multiple columns
  
  .getSort() //returns array of 1-based column indices, negative if using descending sort order

  .setSort(indices) // eg. .setSort([2,1]) to sort by second then first column
  
  .filter(column_index, query) //add filter string to a column
  
  .getFilter() //returns array of column query strings
  
  .editCell(rownum, col) //start editor in the cell

  .search([query string]) //instant search in all columns. Calling this method without argument returns current search string.

  .getSelectedItem() //return data item of selected row or null if no row is selected

  
 
# License
    GPL

# Commercial use license
$99 <a href="https://checkout.bluesnap.com/buynow/checkout?sku3644722=1&storeid=9104">Buy</a>
